# Cutter Code Comparisons

MLIS Student experimenting with different Cutter Code variants. 

The **"Simple Cutter Code"** is generated by following the procedure described on [this Library of Congress webpage](https://www.loc.gov/aba/pcc/053/table.html).

The **Banerjee Code** is adapted from the wonderful [Cataloging Calculator](https://catalogingcalculator.com/) by Kyle Banerjee. I lightly adapted [the code](https://github.com/banerjek/cataloging-calculator/blob/master/cutter.js#L71) for this project.

The **"Educated Cutter"** code is my attempt at setting ranges for first-two letter combinations not specified in G 63 (e.g. names starting with "AC"). My goal was to make all the "buckets" for each digit as having an equal chance of being used (thereby increasing room for growth/hospitality) while staying compatible with G 63. To do this I analyzed letter frequencies in 2 million author names from [the Library of Congress](https://loc.gov/cds/products/MDSConnect-books_all.html).

The **Cube Code** is my best attempt at an improved version of the Cutter Code _if allowed to break from G 63_. I used my frequency analysis tool to create 26 "tables", each with 636 values ranging for 1 to 99, representing the second and third letters in the given name. A single number, like 27, is reused for ranges of combinations of second and third letters. Additional letters, beginning with the fourth and fifth, are processed in pairs, if possible, to better optimize bucket sizes based on letter frequency observed.

My **goals** with Cube Codes is (1) to have fewer "collisions" at the length code length compared to traditional Cutter methods and (2) to thus provide more hospitality for future authors, assuming their names aren't _too_ dissimilar from the 2 million I found from Library of Congress. 

But in its current form, Cube Code is not always more efficient. Cube Code only needs 4 total characters to make "Respini, Eva" distinct from "Ressa, Maria", whereas the traditional Cutter method needs 5. However, these scores are reversed when we try "Cutler" vs. "Cutter". Perhaps with more testing and tweaking we can make improvements, but in general I'm impressed by how well the simpler Cutter table performs. A classic for a reason, I guess!

### Lingering Questions
I still hope to consult the "Cutter-Sanborn Three-Figure Author Tables (Swanson-Swift 1969 revision)", which may be the current "standard"? I can't seem to find the Swanson-Swift 1969 revision online, but Pratt [seems to have a copy at the Brooklyn campus library](https://cat.pratt.edu/record=b1192303).

If you have any thoughts, please feel free to email me at sschlink [at] pratt dot edu.